
# DATA EXPLORATION

# First look at our data
Be extra careful about the  **sampling** . 

Look at the columns description. 
- cooling_degree_days: cooling degree day for a given day is the number of degrees where the daily average temperature exceeds 65 degrees Fahrenheit. Each month is summed to produce an annual total at the location of the building.
- heating_degree_days: heating degree day for a given day is the number of degrees where the daily average temperature falls under 65 degrees Fahrenheit. Each month is summed to produce an annual total at the location of the building.
- direction_max_wind_speed: wind direction for maximum wind speed at the location of the building. Given in 360-degree compass point directions (e.g. 360 = north, 180 = south, etc.).
- direction_peak_wind_speed: wind direction for peak wind gust speed at the location of the building. Given in 360-degree compass point directions (e.g. 360 = north, 180 = south, etc.).
- max_wind_speed: maximum wind speed at the location of the building

Identify the target column. Here = site_eui. Look at is distribution. 

 **Check**  : 
- Missing values (everything about the wind)
- Useless columns : id (building id), year_Factor (anonymized year in which the weather and energy usage factors were observed)
- Outliers : 
  - year column (built between year 0 and year 200)
  - elevation (negative elevations)

Be careful about the  **schema** . The prepare recipe ([compute_full_data_prepared](recipe:compute_full_data_prepared)) automatically detects schema and allows to analyze all the columns. 

# Create a dashboard

Don't forget to remove the sampling // add a filter to make sure you only use data for which we have a label. 

 **Correlation matrix : ** 
- sort on the target variable. 
  - Notice that winter temperatures for the coldest months have a negative correlation. 
  - Notice that summer temperatures for the hottest months have a positive correlation
  - energy star rating is a great indicator
- finds groups of variables that are correlated together
  - average/min/max for a same month are correlated
  - also highly correlated with heating days 
  - wind direction // max wind speed very correlated

**Bivariate analysis**
- chose target as response variable
  - floor area
- do not hesitate to rebin the response

**Charts** 
- always think about representing the density of the variable as well

**Fit curve**


# First idea for feature engineering 
- try to group the temperature variables : min temp in winter, max temp in summer? 
- do a baseline model to have a first idea of what a score would be (+ random forest can help for feature selection)
- bin the type of facility

Other to-do : try the decision-tree interactive builder. 

# FIRST MODEL

## Recap on the dashboard

## Set-up to build the model
1) Divide between to predict and to train. 
2) Divide between to train_set and validation_set. 

- Quick zoom on engines used during recipes. 

Go to lab : 
- Sampling method  How to do K-fold
- Choose the metrics : RMSE might be more interpretable than R2
- ML assertions : can be useful
- Change the sampling to have a good representation of the features (in the lab directly)

First model : 
- keep many features to see how it goes
- just check if numerical or categorical

Interpretation of the model themselves give hints on how to preprocess : 
- ex : in the logreg, the facility type is very important when it comes to the coefficients
- energy star rating comes first
- subpopulation analysis : 
  - depending on the state - variations in the metric
  - depending on the energy_star_rating

Scroll through the different explainability metrics. 

Winners score = 17/20 of RMSE


 **Ideas for feature engineering**  : 

Within a prepare : 
- try to use different processors : 
  - formula (ex : age, temperature ranges, max on the year, min on the year)
  - bin certain columns
  - work on text (extract some text for instance, simplify some text)
- windows on type of building (average site_eui in this category of building)
- Explore all processors

Within a windows : 
- good way to replace missing values

Other ideas? 
- look for potential plugins or recipes that could be useful (pivot, groupby, top-n). 

Additional info : 
- copy/paste steps
- group steps

Next step : 
- try better models, less variables
- show the "revert to design" option


